## **Abstract**

Standard arguments on how an easy monetary policy directly improves financial institutions' liquidity and stimulates investments in the economy are well known. However, analysis of the financial markets based on Austrian Business Cycle Theory (ABCT) can provide a broader picture of such policy impact, especially regarding indirect and long-term effects. In order to perform such analysis, we first present the ABCT, familiarizing the reader with all the necessary theoretical tools. Next, we adapt the macroeconomic framework of Garrison (2001) to construct a formal dynamic model illustrating ABCT. We describe loanable funds market, production structure in the economy and interdependencies between them with mathematical formulas. We define laws of motion describing how a central bank influences loanable funds market and how it impacts economic activity on various stages of production. We use numerical simulation in Python to produce business cycle dynamics for different model parameters. We obtain evolution of the gross output in the economy over the course of business cycle, which is next used to model the default rates. We develop two modified versions of default rates models: single-factor model and Merton model. Both of them involve deterministic term, dependent on the gross output in a given industry or whole economy, and stochastic term, idiosyncratic for each company. 

In the next step, we describe characteristics and use of structured credit products, along with an example of cash flow mechanics for a CLO-type instrument. For such instrument we simulate cash flows for different evolutions of default rates of the loans in the collateral pool. In particular, we analyse cases for the default rates generated by the developed models. Then, we price the CLO junior and senior tranche bonds with Gaussian copula. We use empirical work of on the relationship between real-world and risk-neutral default probabilities by Heynderickx et al. (2016) to infer risk-neutral default probabilities from the estimation of real-world default probabilities based on the data generated by developed models. Next, we assess how much liquidity can be generated via repo transactions with a use of analysed structured products as collateral. We take obtained price evolution and we model haircuts as a 99.9% VaR with a GARCH model. Finally, we introduce a notion of term structure of liquidity generation capability at risk (TSLGCaR) to analyse what is the liquidity generation capability in the future perceived by a financial institution and compare it with the real liquidity generation capability.

We show that fiduciary expansion artificially improves profitability of various economic activities, decreasing perceived default probabilities. This, in turn, inflates financial assets prices, in particular, prices of the structured credit products. An impression that those assets can be safely used to generate liquidity in the future is received by financial institutions, who make use of it while developing their funding strategies. When the bust comes, the necessary correction in assets value comes in place, leading to liquidity problems. Materialization of this process could be seen during the global financial crisis of 2007-2009, especially in case of Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers collapses. 
